june 8 - International brain tumor day
for scanning a brain mri it usually takes 30-45 minutes 
ct scan may sometimes miss the the early stage tumors but mri can't
so mri is more preferred over ct scan
to check for the spread of tumor first the spine mri is done

The brain tumordefines the unusual growth of tissues and uncontrolled
cells proliferation so due to this the natural pattern of cell
growth and death is failed
In primary stage the tumor can be removed but in
secondary stage ,the tumor disease spread, due to this after
removal of tumor the seldom remains and grow back again
so this is the biggest problem in the secondary stage of
tumor
The brain tumor detection of a given patient consist of two main stages
namely,image segmentation and edge detection

Abstract
A Brain tumor is considered as one of the aggressive diseases, among children and adults.
Brain tumors account for 85 to 90 percent of all primary Central Nervous System(CNS) tumors. 
Every year, around 11,700 people are diagnosed with a brain tumor. The 5-year survival rate for 
people with a cancerous brain or CNS tumor is approximately 34 percent for men and36 percent for women. 
Brain Tumors are classified as: Benign Tumor, Malignant Tumor, Pituitary Tumor, etc. Proper treatment, 
planning,and accurate diagnostics should be implemented to improve the life expectancy of the patients. 
The best technique to detect brain tumors is Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI). A huge amount of image 
data is generated through the scans. These images are examined by the radiologist. A manual examination
can be error-prone due to the level of complexities involved in brain tumors and their properties.
Application of automated classification techniques using Machine Learning(ML) and Artificial Intelligence(AI)
has consistently shown higher accuracy than manual classification.Hence, proposing a system performing detection and 
classification by using Deep Learning Algorithms using ConvolutionNeural Network (CNN), 
Artificial Neural Network (ANN), and TransferLearning (TL) would be helpful to doctors all around the world.

Context
Brain Tumors are complex. There are a lot of abnormalities in the sizes and location of the brain tumor(s). 
This makes it really difficult for complete understanding of the nature of the tumor. 
Also, a professional Neurosurgeon is required for MRI analysis. Often times in developing countries 
the lack of skillful doctors and lack of knowledge about tumors makes it really challenging and time-consuming 
to generate reports from MRI’. So an automated system on Cloud can solve this problem.

Definition
To Detect and Classify Brain Tumor using, CNN and TL; as an asset of Deep Learning and to examine the tumor position(segmentation).